---
title: Enhancing the reusability and interoperability of artificial neural networks
  with DEVS modeling and simulation
venue: Advances in Complex Systems
names: David Ifeoluwa Adelani, M. Traoré
tags:
- Advances in Complex Systems
link: https://doi.org/10.1142/S1793962316500057
author: David Adelani
categories: Publications
layout: paper

---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

Artificial neural networks (ANNs), a branch of artificial intelligence, has become a very interesting domain since the eighties when back-propagation (BP) learning algorithm for multilayer feed-forward architecture was introduced to solve nonlinear problems. It is used extensively to solve complex nonalgorithmic problems such as prediction, pattern recognition and clustering. However, in the context of a holistic study, there may be a need to integrate ANN with other models developed in various paradigms to solve a problem. In this paper, we suggest discrete event system specification (DEVS) be used as a model of computation (MoC) to make ANN models interoperable with other models (since all discrete event models can be expressed in DEVS, and continuous models can be approximated by DEVS). By combining ANN and DEVS, we can model the complex configuration of ANNs and express its internal workings. Therefore, we are extending the DEVS-based ANN proposed by Toma et al. [A new DEVS-based generic artficial neural network modeling approach, The 23rd European Modeling and Simulation Symp. (Simulation in Industry), Rome, Italy, 2011] for comparing multiple configuration parameters and learning algorithms and also to do prediction. The DEVS models are described using the high level language for system specification (HiLLS), [Maiga et al., A new approach to modeling dynamic structure systems, The 29th European Modeling and Simulation Symp. (Simulation in Industry), Leicester, United Kingdom, 2015] a graphical modeling language for clarity. The developed platform is a tool to transform ANN models into DEVS computational models, making them more reusable and more interoperable in the context of larger multi-perspective modeling and simulation (MAS).