---
title: 'yosm: A new yoruba sentiment corpus for movie reviews'
venue: arXiv
names: Iyanuoluwa Shode, David Ifeoluwa Adelani, Anna Feldman
tags:
- arXiv
link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.09711
author: David Adelani
categories: Publications
layout: paper

---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

A movie that is thoroughly enjoyed and recommended by an individual might be hated by another. One characteristic of humans is the ability to have feelings which could be positive or negative. To automatically classify and study human feelings, an aspect of natural language processing, sentiment analysis and opinion mining were designed to understand human feelings regarding several issues which could affect a product, a social media platforms, government, or societal discussions or even movies. Several works on sentiment analysis have been done on high resource languages while low resources languages like Yoruba have been sidelined. Due to the scarcity of datasets and linguistic architectures that will suit low resource languages, African languages"low resource languages"have been ignored and not fully explored. For this reason, our attention is placed on Yoruba to explore sentiment analysis on reviews of Nigerian movies. The data comprised 1500 movie reviews that were sourced from IMDB, Rotten Tomatoes, Letterboxd, Cinemapointer and Nollyrated. We develop sentiment classification models using the state-of-the-art pre-trained language models like mBERT and AfriBERTa to classify the movie reviews.