---
title: 'AfriSenti: A Twitter Sentiment Analysis Benchmark for African Languages'
venue: Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
names: Shamsuddeen Hassan Muhammad, Idris Abdulmumin, A. Ayele, N. Ousidhoum, David
  Ifeoluwa Adelani, Seid Muhie Yimam, I. Ahmad, Meriem Beloucif, Saif M. Mohammad,
  Sebastian Ruder, Oumaima Hourrane, P. Brazdil, Felermino D'ario M'ario Ant'onio
  Ali, Davis C. Davis, Salomey Osei, Bello Shehu Bello, Falalu Ibrahim, T. Gwadabe,
  Samuel Rutunda, Tadesse Destaw Belay, Wendimu Baye Messelle, Hailu Beshada Balcha,
  S. Chala, Hagos Tesfahun Gebremichael, Bernard Opoku, Steven Arthur
tags:
- Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.08956
author: David Adelani
categories: Publications
layout: paper

---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

Africa is home to over 2000 languages from over six language families and has the highest linguistic diversity among all continents. This includes 75 languages with at least one million speakers each. Yet, there is little NLP research conducted on African languages. Crucial in enabling such research is the availability of high-quality annotated datasets. In this paper, we introduce AfriSenti, which consists of 14 sentiment datasets of 110,000+ tweets in 14 African languages (Amharic, Algerian Arabic, Hausa, Igbo, Kinyarwanda, Moroccan Arabic, Mozambican Portuguese, Nigerian Pidgin, Oromo, Swahili, Tigrinya, Twi, Xitsonga, and Yor\`ub\'a) from four language families annotated by native speakers. The data is used in SemEval 2023 Task 12, the first Afro-centric SemEval shared task. We describe the data collection methodology, annotation process, and related challenges when curating each of the datasets. We conduct experiments with different sentiment classification baselines and discuss their usefulness. We hope AfriSenti enables new work on under-represented languages. The dataset is available at https://github.com/afrisenti-semeval/afrisent-semeval-2023 and can also be loaded as a huggingface datasets (https://huggingface.co/datasets/shmuhammad/AfriSenti).