---
title: 'VinePPO: Unlocking RL Potential For LLM Reasoning Through Refined Credit Assignment'
author: Amirhossein Kazemnejad
names: Amirhossein Kazemnejad, Milad Aghajohari, Eva Portelance, Alessandro Sordoni,
  Siva Reddy, Aaron Courville, Nicolas Le Roux
venue: ArXiv
link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.01679
tags:
- LLM
- Reasoning
- RL
- RLHF
code: https://github.com/McGill-NLP/VinePPO
twitter: https://x.com/a_kazemnejad/status/1841888338816455033
thumbnail: /assets/images/papers/vineppo.png
categories: Publications
layout: paper
---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly applied to complex reasoning tasks that require executing several complex steps before receiving any reward. Properly assigning credit to these steps is essential for enhancing model performance. Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO), a state-of-the-art reinforcement learning (RL) algorithm used for LLM finetuning, employs value networks to tackle credit assignment. However, value networks face challenges in predicting the expected cumulative rewards accurately in complex reasoning tasks, often leading to high-variance updates and suboptimal performance. In this work, we systematically evaluate the efficacy of value networks and reveal their significant shortcomings in reasoning-heavy LLM tasks, showing that they barely outperform a random baseline when comparing alternative steps. To address this, we propose VinePPO, a straightforward approach that leverages the flexibility of language environments to compute unbiased Monte Carlo-based estimates, bypassing the need for large value networks. Our method consistently outperforms PPO and other RL-free baselines across MATH and GSM8K datasets with fewer gradient updates (up to 9x), less wall-clock time (up to 3.0x). These results emphasize the importance of accurate credit assignment in RL finetuning of LLM and demonstrate VinePPO's potential as a superior alternative.


