---
title: 'BigDocs: An Open Dataset for Training Multimodal Models on Document and Code
  Tasks'
venue: ''
names: Juan Rodriguez, Xiangru Jian, Siba Smarak Panigrahi, Tianyu Zhang, Aarash Feizi,
  Abhay Puri, Akshay Kalkunte, Franccois Savard, Ahmed Masry, Shravan Nayak, Rabiul
  Awal, Mahsa Massoud, Amirhossein Abaskohi, Zichao Li, Suyuchen Wang, Pierre-Andr'e
  Noel, Mats L. Richter, Saverio Vadacchino, Shubham Agarwal, Sanket Biswas, Sara
  Shanian, Ying Zhang, Noah Bolger, Kurt MacDonald, Simon Fauvel, Sathwik Tejaswi,
  Srinivas Sunkara, João Monteiro, K. Dvijotham, Torsten Scholak, Nicolas Chapados,
  Sepideh Kharaghani, Sean Hughes, M. Ozsu, Siva Reddy, Marco Pedersoli, Y. Bengio,
  Christopher Pal, I. Laradji, Spandanna Gella, Perouz Taslakian, David Vázquez, Sai
  Rajeswar
tags:
- ''
link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04626
author: Zichao Li
categories: Publications
layout: paper

---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

Multimodal AI has the potential to significantly enhance document-understanding tasks, such as processing receipts, understanding workflows, extracting data from documents, and summarizing reports. Code generation tasks that require long-structured outputs can also be enhanced by multimodality. Despite this, their use in commercial applications is often limited due to limited access to training data and restrictive licensing, which hinders open access. To address these limitations, we introduce BigDocs-7.5M, a high-quality, open-access dataset comprising 7.5 million multimodal documents across 30 tasks. We use an efficient data curation process to ensure our data is high-quality and license-permissive. Our process emphasizes accountability, responsibility, and transparency through filtering rules, traceable metadata, and careful content analysis. Additionally, we introduce BigDocs-Bench, a benchmark suite with 10 novel tasks where we create datasets that reflect real-world use cases involving reasoning over Graphical User Interfaces (GUI) and code generation from images. Our experiments show that training with BigDocs-Bench improves average performance up to 25.8% over closed-source GPT-4o in document reasoning and structured output tasks such as Screenshot2HTML or Image2Latex generation. Finally, human evaluations showed a preference for outputs from models trained on BigDocs over GPT-4o. This suggests that BigDocs can help both academics and the open-source community utilize and improve AI tools to enhance multimodal capabilities and document reasoning. The project is hosted at https://bigdocs.github.io .