---
title: The BrowserGym Ecosystem for Web Agent Research
venue: ''
names: Thibault Le Sellier De Chezelles, Maxime Gasse, Alexandre Lacoste, Alexandre
  Drouin, Massimo Caccia, L'eo Boisvert, Megh Thakkar, Tom Marty, Rim Assouel, Sahar
  Omidi Shayegan, Lawrence Jang, Xing Han Lù, Ori Yoran, Dehan Kong, Frank F. Xu,
  Siva Reddy, Quentin Cappart, Graham Neubig, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Nicolas Chapados
tags:
- ''
link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05467
author: Xing Han Lu
categories: Publications
layout: paper

---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

The BrowserGym ecosystem addresses the growing need for efficient evaluation and benchmarking of web agents, particularly those leveraging automation and Large Language Models (LLMs) for web interaction tasks. Many existing benchmarks suffer from fragmentation and inconsistent evaluation methodologies, making it challenging to achieve reliable comparisons and reproducible results. BrowserGym aims to solve this by providing a unified, gym-like environment with well-defined observation and action spaces, facilitating standardized evaluation across diverse benchmarks. Combined with AgentLab, a complementary framework that aids in agent creation, testing, and analysis, BrowserGym offers flexibility for integrating new benchmarks while ensuring consistent evaluation and comprehensive experiment management. This standardized approach seeks to reduce the time and complexity of developing web agents, supporting more reliable comparisons and facilitating in-depth analysis of agent behaviors, and could result in more adaptable, capable agents, ultimately accelerating innovation in LLM-driven automation. As a supporting evidence, we conduct the first large-scale, multi-benchmark web agent experiment and compare the performance of 6 state-of-the-art LLMs across all benchmarks currently available in BrowserGym. Among other findings, our results highlight a large discrepancy between OpenAI and Anthropic's latests models, with Claude-3.5-Sonnet leading the way on almost all benchmarks, except on vision-related tasks where GPT-4o is superior. Despite these advancements, our results emphasize that building robust and efficient web agents remains a significant challenge, due to the inherent complexity of real-world web environments and the limitations of current models.