---
title: Evaluation of Natural Language Processing Systems
term: Winter 2025
course_code: COMP 766 Section 002
author: Jackie Chi Kit Cheung
names: Jackie Chi Kit Cheung
categories: Teaching
share: false
last_modified_at: 2025-01-20M00:00:00
layout: single
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: "Table of Contents"
tags:
  - Winter 2025
---

* **Course codes:** COMP 766 Section 002(Winter 2025)
* **Instructors:** 
  * [Jackie Chi Kit Cheung](https://www.cs.mcgill.ca/~jcheung/)[office hours: Wednesdays, 15:00pm – 15:50pm in McConnell 108N]
* **Time:** Mondays and Wednesdays, 16:05pm – 17:25pm in Sherbrooke 680 365
* **Links:** [MyCourses: announcements, slides](https://edstem.org/us/courses/71919/discussion/5944754)

# Description
Course Format: Lectures will be conducted in person. Joining lectures remotely by Zoom may be possible but only in
exceptional circumstances (e.g., an illness or an emergency).
A seminar course on the evaluation of natural language processing systems. We will survey issues
related to validity and reliability of NLP systems, focusing on current practices in the research
community. What do researchers aim to capture in their measurements of NLP systems? Do current
evaluations actually fulfill the measurement goals of the researchers? Are the evaluations reliable and
trustworthy? The course will include student-led presentations and discussions, analyses of existing
evaluations, and a final course project. Topics may include:
• Existing evaluation paradigms and metric development
• Dataset creation
• Reliability and statistical testing
• Documentation efforts
• Measurement theory
• Social science critiques of papers
• Validity frameworks

# Learning Outcomes
By the end of the course, students should have an in-depth understanding of the evaluation landscape
in modern natural language processing research. They should understand the reasons why evaluations
are performed in NLP. They should be able to critically analyze the strengths and weaknesses of
evaluation approaches in existing literature. They should understand the trade-offs that must be made
when deciding on the best evaluation approach, and be able to propose evaluations of their own.

# Evaluation
In-class participation 5%
Paper presentation 1 15%
Paper critique 1 15%
Paper presentation or critique 2 15%
Midterm proposal 5%
Final project presentation 15%
Final project report 30%
Students who receive unsatisfactory final grades will not have the option to submit additional work in
order to improve their grades.

# In-class Participation
Class attendance and participation are mandatory. Active engagement and discussions are expected.
Paper Presentations
Each student will present academic research papers in-class during the term. Presentations will include a
summary of the paper, thoughts on its strengths and weaknesses, and leading a discussion among the
class.

# Paper Critique
Students will write a critique of an existing paper in NLP, focusing on its evaluation. They will summarize
the paper in brief, then analyze it using an existing framework or approach to thinking about evaluation
reliability, validity, or cost.

# Final Project
Each student will individually conduct a final research project in the subject area of the course. A written
proposal is expected in the middle of the term, followed by a final project presentation and a final
report submission at the end of the term.

# Late policy
Late submissions are accepted at the discretion of the instructor. Please inform the
instructor in the event of unexpected circumstances that will affect your submission of coursework.

# Plagiarism Policy
You must include your name and McGill ID number at the top of each program or module that you
implement and submit. By doing so, you are certifying that the program or module is entirely your own,
and represents only the result of your own efforts.

# Work submitted for this course must represent your own efforts 
You must not work in groups unless otherwise stated. You must not copy any other person's work in any manner (electronically or
otherwise), even if this work is in the public domain or you have permission from its author to use it
and/or modify it in your own work. The only exceptions are for source code supplied by the instructor
explicitly for an assignment, and for the final project, where usual research citation practices apply.
Furthermore, you must not give a copy of your work to any other person.

# Use of generative AI technologies. 
Unless otherwise specified by the instructor, you may use generative AI technologies (e.g., Chat-GPT, Bard) only in an assistive manner (e.g., to help understand course
content, to search for information, to help brainstorm ideas, or to edit writing). You may not use such
technologies as the primary means with which to complete coursework, including your final project. All
substantive uses of these tools must be acknowledged in your submissions.

# The plagiarism policy is not meant to discourage interaction or discussion among students. 
You are encouraged to discuss assignment questions with the instructor, TA (if any), and your fellow students.
However, there is a difference between discussing ideas and working in groups or copying someone
else's solution. A good rule of thumb is that when you discuss assignments with your fellow students,
you should not leave the discussion with written notes. Also, when you write your solution to an
assignment, you should do it on your own.

# We may use automated software similarity detection tools to compare your assignment submissions to
that of all other students registered in the course, and these tools are very effective at what they have
been designed for. However, note that the main use of these tools is to determine which submissions
should be manually checked for similarity by an instructor or TA; we will not accuse anyone of copying
or working in groups based solely on the output of these tools.

# You may also be asked to present and explain your submissions to an instructor at any time.
Students who put their name on programs or modules that are not entirely their own work will be
referred to the appropriate university official who will assess the need for disciplinary action.

# Language of Submission
“In accord with McGill University’s Charter of Students’ Rights, students in this course have the right to
submit in English or in French any written work that is to be graded. This does not apply to courses in
which acquiring proficiency in a language is one of the objectives.”
« Conformément à la Charte des droits de l’étudiant de l’Université McGill, chaque étudiant a le droit de
soumettre en français ou en anglais tout travail écrit devant être noté (sauf dans le cas des cours dont
l’un des objets est la maîtrise d’une langue). »
 
